<h2>Triassic:</h2>
                    <br>
                    <br>
                    <p1>At the beginning of the Triassic Period, the land masses of the world were still bound together into
                        the vast
                        supercontinent known as Pangea. Pangea began to break apart in the Middle Triassic, forming Gondwana
                        (South America,
                        Africa, India, Antarctica, and Australia) in the south and Laurasia (North America and Eurasia) in
                        the north. The
                        movement of the two resulting supercontinents was caused by sea floor spreading at the midocean
                        ridge lying at the
                        bottom of the Tethys Sea, the body of water between Gondwana and Laurasia. While Pangea was breaking
                        apart, mountains
                        were forming on the west coast of North America by subduction of the ocean plates beneath the
                        continental plates.
                        Throughout the Middle to Upper Triassic, mountain-forming continued along the coast extending from
                        Alaska to Chile. As
                        mountains were forming in the Americas, North Africa was being split from Europe by the spreading
                        rift. This division of
                        the continents advanced further westward, eventually splitting eastern North America from North
                        Africa.
                        <br>
                        <br>
                        The climate of the Triassic Period was influenced by Pangea, its centralized position straddling the
                        equator, and the
                        geologic activity associated with its breakup. Generally speaking, the continents were of high
                        elevation compared to sea
                        level, and the sea level did not change drastically during the period. Due to the low sea level,
                        flooding of the
                        continents to form shallow seas did not occur. Much of the inland area was isolated from the cooling
                        and moist effects
                        of the ocean. The result was a globally arid and dry climate, though regions near the coast most
                        likely experienced
                        seasonal monsoons. There were no polar ice caps, and the temperature gradient in the north-south
                        direction is assumed to
                        have been more gradual than present day. The sea level rose as the rift grew between North Africa
                        and southern Europe,
                        resulting in the flooding of Central and South Europe; the climates of terrestrial Europe were hot
                        and dry, as in the
                        Permian. Overall, it appears that the climate included both arid dune environments and moist river
                        and lake habitats
                        with gymnosperm forests.
                    </p1>
                    </div>